PEP 257, titled “Docstring Conventions,” outlines the standards for writing docstrings in Python code. Docstrings are string literals that appear as the first statement in a module, function, class, or method definition, and they become the __doc__ special attribute of that object. The PEP emphasizes that while these conventions are recommended for maintainability and clarity, they are not mandatory.  ￼

Key Points from PEP 257:
   •   Purpose of Docstrings: They serve to document modules, classes, functions, and methods, providing a convenient way of associating documentation with Python code.
   •   One-line Docstrings: Used for simple and obvious cases. They should be concise, fitting on a single line, and use triple double quotes ("""). The closing quotes should be on the same line as the opening quotes. For example:

def example_function():
    """Perform an example operation."""
    pass


   •   Multi-line Docstrings: These begin with a one-line summary, followed by a blank line, and then a more detailed description. The summary line should fit on one line and be separated from the rest of the docstring by a blank line. For example:

def complex_function(param1, param2):
    """
    Perform a complex operation.

    This function takes two parameters and performs a series of
    operations to achieve the desired result. It handles various
    edge cases and ensures that the output is always valid.
    """
    pass


   •   Docstring Formatting: For consistency, always use triple double quotes (""") around docstrings. Use raw triple double quotes (r""") if the docstring contains backslashes.
   •   Additional Docstrings: String literals that occur immediately after another docstring are called “additional docstrings.” These are not recognized by the Python bytecode compiler but can be extracted by software tools.

By adhering to these conventions, developers can create clear and consistent documentation within their Python code, enhancing readability and maintainability.